frontends/mitsuba/README.md, before:

ThunderLoom plugin for Mitsuba
===
*ThunderLoom is a physically based shader for woven cloth with added flexibility for artists. https://github.com/vidarn/ThunderLoom*
*It's shading model is based on the work by Piti Irawan https://www.cs.cornell.edu/~srm/publications/IrawanThesis.pdf*

This plugin gives mitsuba the `thunderloom_mitsuba` bsdf which uses a weaving pattern given by a WIF file. Many types of patterns are freely available from sites such as http://handweaving.net.

Note: This plugin has limitations compared to the 3dsMax version. Individual control over different yarn types is currently not supported.

##Install

Binaries of the plugin need to be built against the version of mitsuba that is going to be used.
Under [releases](https://github.com/vidarn/ThunderLoom/releases) are libraries 
compiled against version 0.5.0 of mitsuba available at [mitsuba-renderer.org](mitsuba-renderer.org).


If the dynamic library file for your mitsuba build is available,
simply move the library file to the mitsuba `plugins` directory. 

Usually this means,

* For linux, move `thunderloom_mitsuba.so` into `path-to-mitsuba/plugins`
* For mac, move `thunderloom_mitsuba.dylib` into `/Applications/Mitsuba.app/plugins`
* For windows, move `thunderloom_mitsuba.dll` into `path-to-mitsuba/plugins`

Now the `thunderloom_mitsuba` bsdf should be avaiable the next time you start mitsuba. See the `example_scenes` folder for examples on how to use the bsdf.


#Building
In order to build the plugin, you first need the mitsuba source code and need to make sure that you are able to compile mitsuba itself. See https://www.mitsuba-renderer.org/releases/current/documentation.pdf for a guide on how to set up your system to compile Mitsuba. 

Once you are able to successfully compile mitsuba you can proceed.

* Option 1. Compile mitsuba with plugin
Make a symbolic link in the mitsuba bsdf source directory `ln -s path-to-ThunderLoom/frontends/mitsuba/src mitsubasrc/src/bsdfs/thunderloom`.
Next add the line `plugins += env.SharedLibrary('thunderloom_mitsuba', ['thunderloom/thunderloom_mitsuba.cpp'])` to `mitsubasrc/src/bsdfs/SConscript`. Then compile mitsuba as normal. 


The compiled mitsuba version will now have the bsdf.

* Option 2. Build only library

For linux and macOS, make sure that the mitsuba environment variables are set. 
```
source /path-to-mitsubasrc/setpath.sh
``` 

For windows, you will manually have to set an environment variable with,
```
MITSUBA_DIR=C:\Path-to-mitsubasrc\
```

Next simply run `scons` in the root directory for the mitsuba thunderLoom plugin (where this file is!).

This should compile a shared library and will be placed in a build folder.

(If there are problems, check `src/SConstruct` for troubling libraries, such as the MacOS.sdk which might not fit your system version.)

![monkey towel with a single light source](https://github.com/vidarn/ThunderLoom/raw/master/frontends/mitsuba/example_scenes/monkeytowel/towel_single_light.png) ![monkey towel with a image based lighting](https://github.com/vidarn/ThunderLoom/raw/master/frontends/mitsuba/example_scenes/monkeytowel/towel_envmap.png)

Commit message:

Frontend for V-Ray for Maya and V-Ray Standalone.
This is a combination of 11 commits.

A simple VRay standalone plugin

Diffuse color from pattern

Working, got dPUV from vray

Cleanup

Working yarn-type config in vrscene

+ cleanup

Texturemap support for vray standalone

Fixed vray plugin not reading uscale, vscale

Maya plugin working for global yarn settings.

Working yarn type params, except uv texmaplookup.

windows build config for vray for maya

V-Ray for maya release build fix

frontends/mitsuba/README.md, after:

ThunderLoom plugin for Mitsuba
===
*ThunderLoom is a physically based shader for woven cloth with added flexibility for artists. https://github.com/vidarn/ThunderLoom*
*It's shading model is based on the work by Piti Irawan https://www.cs.cornell.edu/~srm/publications/IrawanThesis.pdf*

This plugin gives mitsuba the `thunderloom_mitsuba` bsdf which uses a weaving pattern given by a WIF file. Many types of patterns are freely available from sites such as http://handweaving.net.

Note: This plugin has limitations compared to the 3dsMax version. Individual control over different yarn types is currently not supported.

## Install

Binaries of the plugin need to be built against the version of mitsuba that is going to be used.
Under [releases](https://github.com/vidarn/ThunderLoom/releases) are libraries 
compiled against version 0.5.0 of mitsuba available at [mitsuba-renderer.org](mitsuba-renderer.org).

For other versions Mitsuba and the plugin must be built together. See the build
instructions.

Additionally there is a small patch file available for `mtsblend`
(a blender/mitsuba) plugin which adds UI for the shader in blender. 
See [frontends/mitsuba/blender_mtsblend/README.md](https://github.com/vidarn/ThunderLoom/tree/master/frontends/mitsuba/blender_mtsblend) for more info.


If the dynamic library file for your mitsuba build is available,
simply move the library file to the mitsuba `plugins` directory. 

Usually this means,

* For linux, move `thunderloom_mitsuba.so` into `path-to-mitsuba/plugins`
* For mac, move `thunderloom_mitsuba.dylib` into `/Applications/Mitsuba.app/plugins`
* For windows, move `thunderloom_mitsuba.dll` into `path-to-mitsuba/plugins`

Now the `thunderloom_mitsuba` bsdf should be avaiable the next time you start mitsuba. See the `example_scenes` folder for examples on how to use the bsdf.

# Building
In order to build the plugin, you first need the mitsuba source code and need to make sure that you are able to compile mitsuba itself. See https://www.mitsuba-renderer.org/releases/current/documentation.pdf for a guide on how to set up your system to compile Mitsuba. 

Once you are able to successfully compile mitsuba you can proceed.

* Option 1. Compile mitsuba with plugin
Make a symbolic link in the mitsuba bsdf source directory `ln -s path-to-ThunderLoom/frontends/mitsuba/src mitsubasrc/src/bsdfs/thunderloom`.
Next add the line `plugins += env.SharedLibrary('thunderloom_mitsuba', ['thunderloom/thunderloom_mitsuba.cpp'])` to `mitsubasrc/src/bsdfs/SConscript`. Then compile mitsuba as normal. 


The compiled mitsuba version will now have the bsdf.

* Option 2. Build only library

For linux and macOS, make sure that the mitsuba environment variables are set. 
```
source /path-to-mitsubasrc/setpath.sh
``` 

For windows, you will manually have to set an environment variable with,
```
MITSUBA_DIR=C:\Path-to-mitsubasrc\
```

Next simply run `scons` in the root directory for the mitsuba thunderLoom plugin (where this file is!).

This should compile a shared library and will be placed in a build folder.

(If there are problems, check `src/SConstruct` for troubling libraries, such as the MacOS.sdk which might not fit your system version.)

![monkey towel with a single light source](https://github.com/vidarn/ThunderLoom/raw/master/frontends/mitsuba/example_scenes/monkeytowel/towel_single_light.png) ![monkey towel with a image based lighting](https://github.com/vidarn/ThunderLoom/raw/master/frontends/mitsuba/example_scenes/monkeytowel/towel_envmap.png)
